the best way to understand yourself is
having someone in your corner
coaches can help you understand yourself
by providing an angle on your issues
for more information on coaching and a
way to sign up for our waitlist
click the first link in the description
hey man
uh are you dude yeah
you sound like a dude
i was just i it just occurred to me that
i i wasn't entirely sure of your gender
because you know oh i see yeah i'm a guy
um so welcome five up oh thank you thank
you for having me
uh do you wanna see my face on the
discord call
um
sure why not okay there
my face is revealed
hello hey man uh and what do you go by
uh just five up for twitch okay
and um and and what would you like to
talk about today five up
oh should we just get into like the main
things i guess
or sure uh i guess
somewhat being new to
twitch and the whole new experience of
it and what goes along with that
i guess really good and the bad side of
it
i think that's probably the main thing
okay so
the like how to adjust to twitch
yeah essentially okay and and so can you
tell me a little bit
about um how you got
uh started streaming on twitch uh sure
uh so i'd say for around
two years now i've been friends with a
lot of streamers but
it's always been like behind the scenes
i guess so the public didn't
know me um then when a manga started
just becoming extremely popular uh i
was good at deception-based games they
thought it was entertaining and they
brought me along for some of the streams
and then
they constantly sent me screenshots of
like does
five upstream where they can i have a
link to a stream or like people begging
me to stream so
i eventually just said okay i'll turn it
on it wasn't really a plan to become a
streamer
and then it just grew
in exponentially an insane amount uh now
here we are
okay um and
we're gonna start with one of the
staples how does that make you feel
um
i feel it feels weird i guess
like is the best way i can describe it
where
the the element of
i don't think i can process having
around like
10 000 to 20 000 people watch me like it
doesn't feel like that's
an actual thing uh i guess where
i don't think it's even hit me for that
aspect it just more feels like i'm
talking to
um a
like it feels the same talking to 100
people i guess
um but then there's other elements where
you actually
interact with the people that watch you
which is like the
very daunting almost but it's a really
cool experience at the same time
what's daunting about it um
i'm not used to having
people like be nervous around me i guess
where if you join a channel there'll be
a flood of people coming in
and then they'll all want to say
something but they'll also like be
extremely nervous to say
anything uh and that's a weird
experience for me i'd say just because
i'm used to just talking to people
uh just like person to person i guess
okay i'm just listening to your voice
do you mind if i ask a couple of
questions in general about
um you know ballpark features of your
like where you are in life sure so can
you just ballpark your age for me
i'm 21. okay
and um do you want to share with us like
are you a student
or i'm not cur
sure uh i'm not currently a student i
finished high school then i went
immediately into working uh i did
graphic design
okay and so are you working right now do
you have a job
uh i not i mean i guess twitch is my
full-time job now
yep but before that uh yeah um i did
graphic design
okay full time and um when did you start
streaming on twitch
uh in mid-august of this year
okay so just recently
um and
so can can you help me understand a
little bit about what
what about adjusting to twitch has been
challenging for you
um
there is a i don't
i feel guilty when
i can't control the chat room because
it's such a new thing that i wasn't able
to like
build from the ground up and like start
a very controlled community
where um there
it's just a combination of a bunch of
different communities plus youtube
uh all into one very fresh place and
sometimes it's just like
they'll if anything goes wrong for uh
say in a game of among us because that's
a game about deception
there's going to be heated moments and a
lot of people understand that and they
will
brigade other chat rooms occasionally
and
it's just um that's not me at all
and it's very hard to control that
and that's like i feel bad about that by
a giant amount and then
there's like the uh i'm not gonna say
i don't think i have imposter syndrome
but correct me if i'm wrong if this is
in the
lines of it where so i'm losing my voice
in a second
uh it's it's not it's sort of like
i work hard for what i do i try to be
entertaining uh
but there is the feeling of like these
are
my peers i've only started in august and
it almost feels like a level of
undeservingness
okay when i compare myself to other
people
firefox would you describe yourself as
contemplative
uh remind me what that means
like do you are you a thinker yeah
you sound contemplative
you sound like you think about things
yeah i would say i think a lot before um
i do anything to the point of over
analyzing stuff
how do you know if you overanalyze
something
when i can think about like four
different
possibilities of ways to go like
even for this interview i guess it was
like what if i say something bad what if
i say something good what if i reveal
too much blah blah blah blah blah
and that's like way too much into detail
versus just going with it
but does that bother you to think to
overannoys
um for some parts it's helpful for some
parts it's very
very um bad i guess where you can get in
your own head
ask again does it bother you oh um
no i didn't think so
so you know sometimes people talk about
overthinking as anxiety so sometimes you
know we kind of think about people who
overthink about various possibilities
and stuff like that as a
manifestation of anxiety but it sounds
to me like you just kind of calculate
but it doesn't necessarily
bother you i'd say that's accurate
and so i'd say that when you say that
you overthink it's actually out of a
logical conclusion that
maybe you would benefit from thinking
less and maybe you would do better with
sort of going with the flow and letting
go and doing all these things that
people talk about
what do you think about that
yeah i mean that would it's a lot
easier said than done is the sad part
about that though
yeah where yeah
go ahead sorry yeah
i i don't i've like i've tried to do
that occasionally
but it's like i'll put myself out on a
whim
and do stuff spontaneous just to like
try
and capture that more but it's like
still very hard to do that just like
portland possible
sure sure okay
so let me just try to kind of recap a
little bit about
what i understand about u5 up and then
you let me know if i'm
kind of missing particular things or you
want to add anything okay
so it sounds like you were friends with
streamers
and then you started playing among us
with them just kind of out of
fun maybe and then people started
inquiring a little bit about
you know how do we watch you stream
directly
and then you kind of decided okay maybe
i'll give this a shot
and around mid-august you started
streaming and and now you have what
sounds like five to ten thousand
concurrents
and you feel sort of undeserving but at
the same time i'm not hearing that
you're particularly
distressed if anything you're more
bewildered and it's sort of like you
just spawned in the game and you're like
kind of looking around and you're like
what's going on here and how do i manage
this
where am i
yeah um
i don't know if
relating to the the undeserving part
where
i don't know if bewildered is the
correct word
because i mean more in that feeling it's
um
there's people that i've watched for
years i guess or
people that have been in the industry
for years
like nine ten years i guess and then
i come in and then it's only been three
months i
it's hard to not compare yourself to
other people and
like a personal opinion was like these
people are so entertaining and i don't
feel as
entertaining as them uh and then i
am all of a sudden like bigger
and i don't want to use bigger because
that feels like cocky almost
um sure but i i can't think of a better
word
besides that where some of these people
only have like 500 viewers for example
and i i feel like
people deserve so much more i guess
where
i'm kind of just here sure
that's more the feeling of it yeah yeah
no i i get it so i'm also
not noticing a whole lot of distress
with anything that you've talked about
today
i mean i'm
generally a very very like controlled
person where
i try to not let
emotions or i guess emotional sides
in general um affect me
where i think about it a lot
then i i decide how i feel about that
and go on about that rather than just
like acting on an impulse or
letting things affect me too much and
what is it that you're keeping at bay
what is it that you're not not letting
what is it that you're not
letting affect you um
i mean i've been
hmm
well i i guess
besides like repeating myself i guess um
i i've never been one to like
it's not a lack of empathy it's a lack
of like
vocal empathy i guess where
or emotional understanding of people
um i don't know how to like explain
this okay well let's
why don't you start by doing a bad job
and then we'll clean it up
gotcha sure um
when when someone's going through a
situation
i guess it's i look at things
logically and find a logical solution
rather than an emotional solution
and that translates over to pretty much
everything i do in general so not just
the um like that
that was more of an example trying to
translate over to like everything and
that's how my mind thinks
so that's what i more me by like less
empathy uh in terms of like
feeling and such for so like streaming
i guess i don't understand um
a lot of the the feelings that go into
it that a lot of people have
or like the response and reception from
chat
i guess where like it feels sort of like
a giant disconnect
sure a little better yeah yeah good good
job so let me let me see if we let's see
if we can do this together okay five up
sure
so i i don't know exactly what i'm
getting this from but
i get the sense that like you don't live
the life that other people live
and i'm not just talking about being a
successful streamer i mean that
you sort of navigate the world and you
kind of like see
other people having issues with stuff
that just is not an issue for you
and and you sort of logically understand
how there are things that
you know people feel and things that
people do and stuff like that and
sometimes they get bothered about things
and they they feel like imposters and
whatnot
but you just don't feel those things
like you get that maybe on some level
you do
maybe you feel it a little bit but it
doesn't it doesn't it seem to affect you
as much as it affects other people
yeah i'd say that's very true okay we
got a very true okay
so yeah man i i think this is gonna go
potentially in a different direction
from
uh maybe what you were thinking or maybe
what other people were thinking
um and it's interesting okay
um so let me ask you this five up can
you tell me a little bit about your
upbringing um sure
i
um i guess from a very young age my
parents were divorced
so i was always raised on the two house
dynamic
where half the week i'd spend a day or
days at my father's house half days at
my mother's house um
went to
um a charter school if you know what
that is
yeah can you explain it to us uh charter
school is essentially
it's not a public school it is a school
where it is more of a small
different type of teaching style
where for the specific one it was
like three years at a campus because
this is like
age six or nine um some i'm just going
to speak in
ages because europeans might be watching
um
so ages six through nine then different
campus
uh with a whole different class and such
in students
uh three years there then another campus
after
the ages of nine through twelve then you
do two years in middle school
that's i guess 12 through 14 and then i
went to a public school
um so
kind of through throughout school
i
i've always been the person to finish
things
very very quickly where instead of i
don't really know what a public school
system is for
the ages up until high school because i
didn't go to one um
but we were assigned very like
a set assignments for the week and i
would always just finish that in the
first day
and then i would just spend the rest of
the week doing whatever i wanted
i guess because there was no other
assignment to do um
and that lasted up until
i guess middle school and within those
things because i had so much freedom
um the teachers didn't really know what
to do with me
and
things kind of just got i guess left
behind in a way
where i was just my own independent i
guess
and it was hard to find the resources of
like what i wanted to do fully
um so within these school systems every
i'd say third year because like i said
you switch a campus after
three years so first and second fine on
the third year the year before you
switch to campus
um something always happened to where i
was learning
i guess where either the teacher got
um something happened to them the
dynamic changed a lot
where like on my third year
the teacher got pregnant and then she
completely just like did not pay
attention to any of the thirty years
um in sixth grade or age twelve
um the teacher swapped from the main one
and for the three years that we're at
these campuses we only share the same
classmates for every subject and there's
only 28 people per class
and the campus has like 200 people in
total
and then middle school same thing
happened again
where a bunch of teachers that i know
were good from
my brother's experience because he went
to the same schools as me um
they all swapped the years i got there
and so everything was sort of like a
transitional period
um i'm sorry can you say
did you say you have siblings i have one
brother
and is he older or younger uh older
and what's he up to um
he is
um let's say he's in
the medical research field and i have to
leave that a little bit
um sure broad i guess is he accomplished
for yeah uh well he's um he's 23 he just
finished
um university but like i can't say
what he does no no i'm not asking what
he does i asked
is he good at it
um i don't know
i mean he's that's okay it's kind of
secret
i guess
what's secret about that um
hmm i'm i i don't mean to pry i'm just
genuine no no
no no no no i'm just trying to get a
sense of like if he's accomplished at
whatever field he is and i don't
i don't yes that's identifying
information
yeah he's a he's accomplished at what he
does i think that's
all i could really say sure that's
that's oh yeah basically what i'm asking
um five up do you feel like you're not
like the other humans
what do you mean by that i'm going to
that more
um what was your why did you laugh what
did you feel when i asked the question
um
and i'll go go into it more in a second
i guess
when you say that it instantly like
makes me go into comparing myself to
other people
and it's like
i did things differently than people i
wouldn't say
i'm different though i guess
yeah but but so so i'll pay attention to
my wording okay
do you feel like you're not like the
other humans
yes okay
so i'll explain more now
so like humans have like lives right
where they get attached to things they
get emotional
sometimes they get anxious sometimes
they get confused sometimes they get
you know bent out of shape they compare
they have egos
they try hard they suffer they're
paralyzed by lack of motivation things
like that
and it's not that you don't feel any of
those things it's just that all that
[ __ ] seems to affect you less
like the volume on all of those things
is sort of turned down
yeah i'd agree okay
and so i mean a a five-upper you are you
like i don't i'm not getting much in
terms of like
emotional distress or like you know
sometimes people come on and they're
like dealing with
let's say depression or anxiety or like
feeling cut off or feeling unmotivated
or things like that i'm not really i'm
not really getting
any any of that from you um
yeah that wasn't um
uh i guess throughout like
middle school in high school uh or early
high school
i i had like a little bit of depression
i'd say
and i managed to work through that and i
think i'm in a very comfortable spot
uh and now i've been for a bunch of
years now sure sure so so i'm just
confirming that right so sure i i we
don't need to go digging for negativity
in fact i'm just
i'm actually trying to close the door on
negativity because i think
that becomes a much more interesting
conversation so this isn't going to be a
conversation at least i don't think so
about depression or anxiety or imposter
syndrome or anything like that
what do you think about that does any of
that stuff like did you want to talk
about any of that stuff
um that wasn't really the intention
i guess of coming on here did you have a
particular intention
oh the
well i guess two
one was to
one meet you because i am a fan uh two
um
[Music]
i guess the there's the
the nervousness about everything
relating to what happened like
being here now as in the the twitch
environment and
what that means and the
the i guess the terrifyingness of what
comes after because
with such a sudden explosion on such a
um a game that
has no business being as popular as it
does the the moment that comes after
what happens next after that game is
finished is terrifying
what's terrifying about that um
the why do people fully watch me
i guess because i don't feel that
particularly entertaining
i guess and i don't understand why um
to this degree this happened for the
position i'm in now
yep okay so i think there's an important
word there and
and my my i'm getting kind of like
an interesting direction which i'd like
to pose to you now
so you said you don't understand so
sometimes when
like you don't know you don't understand
what comes next
so and that's actually what i'd like to
focus on today so sometimes when people
come on they're struggling with a
particular emotion or like
problem and and our goal is to sort of
help them like see things in a new light
in a sense it's understanding but i
think it's more of like an emotional
understanding
in your case five up what i would say is
that you are what i would call
spiritually gifted and what i mean by
that
is that like you're one of these people
is actually for whatever reason has a
fair amount of detachment
kind of baked into you so what we talk
about and what we try to encourage
in this channel is for people to teach
people how to become detached
okay so so i know this sounds kind of
weird but like
so sometimes you know like i mean i
don't give people like clinical
diagnoses but my sense of people is that
okay this person has
anxiety holding them back or this person
has shame holding them back or
you know this person like isn't in cell
because they have a low value of
themselves or whatever
the interesting thing is that in your
case i i think for whatever reason you
have a certain amount of detachment
baked into you and what i mean by
detachment is that
you know a lot of human beings live
lives that they're like very attached to
stuff
so sometimes that's material stuff
sometimes it's relationships
sometimes it's like goals and ambitions
but i don't get the sense that you're
particularly ambitious
i don't get the sense that you're
particularly like
um you know hung up on something
emotionally
i think you just sort of
are generally like kind of content and
kind of happy and if anything you're
just trying to figure out like how all
this stuff
works like you're not but but your your
your desire to figure out how things
work is not like
out of a desire to like change something
so a lot of times like understanding is
born of like desperation
so i'm tired of feeling this way so i
need to understand how to stop feeling
this way
you just seem to sort of be like kind of
chilling
and and are like you know life is
relatively easy for you
um i don't get the sense that you're
particularly attached to like
academic accomplishments although it
sounds like you could be quite
accomplished if you really put your mind
to it but you seem to be
relatively uninterested um you're one of
these rare people that
seems like you went to work after high
school but like
that was also like i'd guess that you
were relatively successful as a graphic
designer
yeah i didn't have a um
a reason to go to college where any
field that
i want to go into or wanted to go into
didn't really require that education
yeah so see that's kind of interesting
because that's very rare
right so very few people say i'm not
gonna go to college because
it doesn't suit me so most people
are actually like you know have
either a lack of like internal sense of
direction to where they go out go to
college
out of like insecurity and like not
being sure what they want to do in life
or they go because that's what they're
supposed to do like you just sort of
have your own internal compass
that seems to be a little bit you know
um slick when it comes to like
the world wanting you to do things like
it just the world wanting you to do
things just sort of doesn't
latch on to you does that make sense
yeah how how much
do you think that what i'm saying
actually is accurate to
kind of your who you are in your life i
think
um
i want like my mind says i want to say
you're like
completely accurate but i want to say 95
like there might be some room for air um
but i'd say you got very accurate
okay so i think oddly enough so so this
is going to be an interesting
conversation five up because i i don't
think it's gonna be about like so some
people are drawing correlations between
you and destiny
and some people are sort of saying that
like you know
this sounds a lot like destiny like he
doesn't experience a whole lot of
emotion
frankly i i don't i don't think you're
similar to destiny at all i don't
so so some people i think have emotional
suppression
i don't think you have emotional
suppression or i mean maybe you've got
some
but i i don't think you're like you know
there's some treasure trove of negative
emotion that you've talked so
far away within yourself that like you
know that's what we have to dig up i
think you're just kind of confused
and you're different from other people
and and you're not really sure like
how to systematically understand
yourself better
or like what to do with your life
hmm yeah
i don't know how to respond to that i
mean besides like i wanna i wanna give a
better response
than just yeah i think that very nail on
the head
but i don't know like what to say that's
okay
so so just just say so you don't have to
offer more
i just want you to offer if it's a nail
on the head that's nail on the head
right
so then then it's going to be weird
because i'm going to guide the
conversation because but first we have
to like establish
um we have to just establish that we're
on the same page about what we're
talking about and what direction to go
right so like i'm just trying to like
nail this down very clearly that
i don't think i'm gonna try to dig into
your negative emotions from your
childhood
because i don't think there's a whole
lot to find there no
okay so um
so then so let's just talk about this so
can you tell me a little bit
uh i i do want to understand a little
bit more about your upbringing so can
you tell me a little bit about your
parents
um sure so the graphic design side
was that is a
business that my mom's side runs i'm
getting a
call in a second let me just give me two
seconds
sorry about that i just muted everything
i turned it off um
yeah so for my uh
mom's side of stuff she runs the her own
graphic design business
and it's more of like a work at home
very specialized type of thing where
i'm not going to say what exactly we do
and what we work on because it's very
easy to find uh
if you know but we do
a lot of stuff for like specialized
industries relating to either music or
big
uh conferences and
uh hotels and advertisement stuff
and then for my dad's side it's um
he's very accomplished in the rock
climbing scene
where like two very very very different
uh personalities and sides of upbringing
where um
i guess i got to experience like
one side where we didn't have
like any money and we're struggling on
that side and then mom's side
was a lot more uh frugal i guess
and it was the the dynamic of going from
nothing to a little bit of something and
just pushing back and forth and seeing
both sides of that
i guess um
then
i'm trying to think of how much i want
to say
um let's talk about this for a second
why why the hesitation
why do you think so carefully about what
you want to say
for this topic in particular or yeah
just
this topic and also like you know it
sounds like you're
very concerned about revealing something
what is it that you're trying to protect
i'm not i'm not trying to get you to say
anything about it
i just want to understand what your
motivations are oh
um i guess it's also
pertaining to
um why i don't show my face where
i don't want to have people
find relating back to i guess
me being friends with streamers before i
streamed on twitch for years
whenever i went out with them um they
would get recognized all the time
didn't matter where they were and the
the thought of loss of privacy
is something i don't
i don't want it all or okay i want to be
able to
do what i want to do and not have to um
be forced to just lose that i guess
okay so you're just it's just protection
of privacy
for protection of privacy and then
there is like how much do i want to say
about
um it's privacy for one side and then
it's like
very very very personal things for the
other
what does that mean for the other um
so like relating to why i didn't like go
into detail about what my
mom's company does uh that's more of the
keeping privacy side of things and then
for like why i'm hesitating on the other
is this like
personal events that happen that are
like i don't think i want to reveal
at that moment or like go too much into
are
personal events like that happened in
your upbringing yes
okay yeah yeah i mean okay
were you did you grow up in a particular
uh religious tradition
no um
there there was an event that caused my
dad's or my dad to become very religious
where he wasn't at
all and too very religious um
and then my mom said not at all okay
um have you had people in your life five
up who
understand you yeah
like do do people like understand
like have you met anyone like you
similar i can think of three people
you can think of three people any of
them like older than you
um
i'd say two of them are like
substantially
one's two years old two years older than
me the other one
is four years older than me
okay
then the other one is um i'm older than
him by a few months
okay and how did you get to be friends
with a bunch of streamers
um how did that happen if you
oh combination of a few things
i guess where i i assume you know what
league of legends is
yeah yeah um i peaked a challenger in
that game
and that in suit just goes with um
you you meet streamers from like
i hate saying this but like challenger
is essentially like all right
you you are a person you can talk to who
you want to because that is the social
status
and then the
the other side is like i had a friend
that i'm not going to say
who uh i had a friend that got popular
on
the raj patel show now known as like the
austin or love and
host whatever it's called um that no
longer goes on there
and she introduced me to a lot of
streamers i guess
and i became friends with them and how
did you feel about that
what was it like being friends with
streamers um
i never really looked at it like that it
was more i always try to just become
friends with
people that are fun
i've never been one to get like star
struck or
nervous around people i guess
i think that makes sense um
did you ever think about the value it
could bring being friends with these
people yeah i mean that was
partially in the back of my head and it
makes me feel bad but
um yeah there there is an element of
like
well i i have friends that are in the
scene and i have more opportunities to
do some fun things
uh i didn't think uh streaming was like
a potential
but i didn't want to
feel like i would take advantage of that
situation i wanted more do it on myself
if i wanted to stream
streaming was never really a um a thing
i
thought to pursue
okay five foot what do you want to do
with your life
uh i i've wanted
i said i've wanted to do what i want is
the best way to put it
where i want to
spontaneously do um
just random goals that i have whether it
be travel to a bunch of locations
um and explore
all of europe or asia versus um maybe
open
a very very nice bakery somewhere in
europe or
um become very uh
skilled at uh cooking or pastry side of
that
um but overall just like have fun and do
what i want
is always been my goal in life
i think that would be a waste
interesting why so
you were born with a really good set of
rng five
up
and i think that that if you're bored
born with a good set of rng
you've got two options right one is just
kind of coast
and you sort of live a life of
indulgence
right you learn you get good at things
like things that are respectably
indulgent
but you do things like you travel you
master skills because you have the
talent and proficiency to do so
like something tells me that you know
here we've got a 21 year old kid who's
challenger in league of legends
and a very successful streamer after
like three months of streaming
and if you something tells me if you
wanted to master
becoming a pastry chef you would so when
you put your mind to something it sounds
like
it ten your mind tends to generally
speak and do what you
want it to do um you know
you have a certain amount of
self-direction and and
you know it's you sound kind of op five
i i guess but i
the
the i don't know i respond to that i'll
be honest um
that's okay
i i don't know what
what do you mean by it would be oh like
are
you saying that for
like you think would be better for me to
pursue i uh
i don't know uh a field or
i i don't generally know what you mean
by it would be a waste yeah
i i get that and so we're going to talk
about that in a second
yeah okay so here's here's what i think
would be a waste
so like okay so five up i think this
will make a lot more sense if i give you
just some
actual context so in the
karmic religions like hinduism and
buddhism
they believe in the principle of cause
and effect
okay so that's what karma means so karma
means that for
each action there's an equal and
opposite reaction
that all things that happen have causes
and that all things
and that all causes lead to happenings
you with me so far yes okay
so then let me ask you a question
if you got a good rng like you spawned
with a good seed
okay like you know i'm talking about
like rng seed from like roguelikes
yes okay so if you spawn with a good
seed
so let's let me start by asking you this
question okay so we're gonna like
philosophize a little bit which is not
something i do often on stream but i
think it's actually probably what you
need
because i imagine you have these kinds
of thoughts a lot so
um so do you think that
cause and effect is a universal
principle of existence or do you think
that it is
it is limited and that some causes exist
without
effects and that some effects are not
preceded by causes
uh definitely the second one so give me
an example of an effect that is not
preceded by a
where cause cause and effect break down
so i mean causes uh
inspired by a person wanting to make a
change or motivation or something happen
and a person can pursue that
and do that for a this is a this is more
on the negative side of thinking but
it's still a example of it doesn't
necessarily always because you said
some potential parts um so
the cause that they are trying to make
an effect happen from
doesn't sometimes amount to anything
that's like
not that's a very negative way of
looking at it where there's also
the complete opposite where a person can
strive out to do something and make a
change
and that change will actually have a
great effect
um but you you can't
or at least i don't look at it like that
is a guarantee
no well well yeah so so the question is
is there an effect
it's not that there's a particular
effect right
so like for example so i i'll just be
transparent so i believe that
um you know causes have effects and that
effects have causes
so it's been my experience generally
speaking as a scientist
that barring some very rare situations
the laws of physics don't randomly break
down
okay from that perspective i agree with
you right so like like even if i have
a motivation or intention to do
something
and the thing doesn't happen that
doesn't mean that my actions don't have
effects it just means that the effect
that i wanted was not achieved
so that's different it's like kind of
saying if i roll a pair of dice
and i want an 11 just because i want an
11 doesn't mean that
once i roll the dice they're not going
to land on a particular number like once
i roll the dice the dice will land on
some number
so does that you with me yeah no i
follow you
so so just because the you know i'm not
saying that you can necessarily control
a particular outcome in fact the
opposite
but what i'm saying is that all things
come from somewhere like
it's impossible to get a plant without a
seed
and generally speaking well i mean not
all plants but
not all seeds will go grow into plants
right so there are a number of things
that can influence
whether a seed winds up growing into a
plant or not
but once again you can look at each of
those seeds and you can kind of say that
like
the reason for this effect is because of
particular causes like if i
put a seed in
you know in a metal box it's not going
to turn into
an apple tree right because the
sufficient causes are not there with me
yes okay so so from that perspective
completely
agree with uh every cause has an effect
okay
so so then let me ask you this do you
think your birth
has antecedent causes
what go into more what antecedent means
so like is your birth
influenced by prior causes
i mean yeah okay which ones
i mean i i guess just
me being born sure sex like sure
absolutely right and so your makeup is
influenced by what
i mean like the likes of the parents
absolutely right
now what about your parents financial
situation
would you consider that to be a cause
that determines who you are
no i i wouldn't say so really
not to a specific degree
where i've always been allowed to do
whatever i want um and
when it comes to like if i wanted to do
something as in
travel or uh get anything i'd have to
work for that
so okay it was own effort to get what i
want i guess
where i did have a um
a more privileged side at least on my
mom's side
um but i don't think
money has i mean it has shown me more
potentials in the world
so on that aspect yes where i've been
given more opportunities to see stuff
and that gathers inspiration
to and motivation to do over things but
i don't think money is fully the
influence yeah yeah but but i i
i i think you're actually i
i didn't answer the question i i didn't
ask the question clearly but your answer
implies to me that
that that and that the answer is yes so
let me put it this way
you know part of who you are today is
because of your genetics
part of who you are today is the
financial situation that your parents
brought you up in
yes right so so if you're i'm not saying
that you're
money-oriented or that or anything i'm
not making a particular claim about how
the dice
landed all i'm saying is that there are
a number of things that kind of
influence
and drive into who you are in this
moment
and so some of that is genetics right so
those are some
aspects of your being that are
essentially determined before you were
born
fair mm-hmm and then there are all these
other like nurture aspects
but those in turn are determined by like
your parents because your parents have a
slew of experiences
and then they share certain principles
or values with you
and those in turn are like built on
their own experiences which in turn
are influenced by their genetics and
their upbringing
and on and on and on
make sense yes okay
so then the question is like okay so
like you are what you are
and then the question is like what do
you do with the seed that you're given
and so this is where i'm gonna make a
claim so so far i feel like i've been on
pretty
standard footing or pretty solid
foundation and i feel like if you
disagreed i could
you know make a convincing argument
whether i can bring you around to it or
not is a different story
now i'm gonna go out on a limb okay so
this is where like i'm on shaky ground
so it's been my experience that from a
call
so this is where like now we get into
sort of the spirituality or the
religious aspect of it where
it becomes harder to elucidate logically
although in my experience if you spend
enough
time and energy exploring it you'll come
to this conclusion
so there's like this idea of like good
karma and bad karma which i think is
actually
false there's no such thing as good
karma and bad karma karma is just karma
energy is just energy and cause and
effect is just cause and effect
it's we as human beings who apply our
own
value system onto karma so it is because
we desire particular effects that we say
that something is better than something
else
with me so far yes okay
and so what i'm going to say though is
that like it's been my experience
that people who are born with a good
seed
can go one of two directions they either
use
that seed for themselves or they use
that seed for
others
what do you think about this
yeah i mean i i agree is
it's just up to the motivation of that
person
and the how much effort they want to put
into it
yep and so i think
so i think part of the reason that you
did you got this seed
is because of your past karma
and i think that you've got an
interesting choice because i think if
you go the route that you were talking
about
in terms of like learning lots of skills
and doing cool stuff and traveling the
world
i think your life will be a little bit
of a waste
okay that's a provocative statement
how do you how do you feel about that
in in some senses it's like
if i i feel like
people in general have um
a talent and they you can do something
to make a little bit of a difference
or a massive difference depending on
things that you
put yourself out to do and some people
are going to be better at that some
people can contribute a lot to
the uh i guess society or
um i'm just gonna use society there's
obviously a
bunch of words or different types of
things i could describe um
and while that is true
i feel like
learning a bunch of different skills and
applying it and not necessarily just
like a make a difference to the
world um is a
needed or not i needed isn't the correct
word
is uh i don't want to be for example a
politician
um i don't want to be a
a pub like i don't know a public speaker
or a motivator
i guess so well that i i
could be i guess it's
uh it's hard for me to
[Music]
say like is that what you're telling me
to do
is that no i'm not telling you to do any
of those things i'm also not telling you
to become a doctor or anything like that
so here's here's i think what i'm
telling you is
is really just to introduce this concept
because i think for
i think you should do everything that
you have said
but i think that i'm just kind of
introducing the idea
that you know you've got a really good
rng and so like the world is going to
like you you you basically have a fork
in the road
of like your life right you can live a
life where
you tend to focus on yourself or you can
live a life
where you improve the lives of others
now i'm not saying that those two are
mutually exclusive i'm not saying that
becoming a pastry chef won't be the way
in which you give back to other people i
don't think it looks like anything
particular
what i'm really trying to do here and
this is hard um
a five up is that i'm trying to get you
to think about things because i don't
know if you've
quite been exposed to some of these
concepts
and that's really the goal is like i
think it's like i think if you want to
travel the world you absolutely should
if you want to focus on yourself for a
while that's actually totally fine too
but i i think that when when i ask you
you know what do you want it's
essentially
to kind of you're kind of saying i want
to do what i feel like
which is a very good goal but at some
point
having seen people who are somewhat like
you
and who are also very accomplished
they tend to find that their life starts
to become like
relatively empty at some point
and so what i'm trying to do is actually
since based on our karma i have the
opportunity to talk to you when you're
i've talked to you when you are 30
and i've talked to you when you're like
and i can tell you where you're gonna
end up with a lot of confidence
because i've talked to people who are
you when they're 30 years old
and they've built a company that's worth
20 million dollars and sold it
and i've talked to you when you were 45
years old who built companies that are
worth a billion dollars insulted
and and i just want to introduce the
concept because i don't think you have a
good
so it's not that you don't have you have
a good internal compass
but but i i think you could really
benefit from
experiences and a system of knowledge
that is sort of like hard uh does
doesn't apply to most people which is
essentially like some of these like
uh eastern texts on spirituality and
sort of
the nature of happiness and stuff like
that because as i said before i think
you're spiritually gifted so you have a
natural degree of a certain amount of
detachment
you also like tend to operate in terms
of accomplishment like relatively
effortlessly
like it seems like if you really want to
do something like you said you know when
you were in fifth grade you would do all
your homework at the beginning of the
week
and it doesn't sound like anyone sat you
down to try to do that
yeah right which if you think about our
audience especially our audience at
healthy gamer people would kill for that
they work their entire they spend years
of their life
trying to get themselves to do things do
things like
do their work on monday and then be free
the rest of the week
and instead what they do is they like
procrastinate and suffer and push it
back
and play games for five days and then
like panic on friday
and it's the same amount of effort it's
just one is relatively like fun and
effortless
and then like the other is like fraught
with anxiety procrastination and shame
and and so i don't even it's kind of
weird five up because i i kind of feel
like
you need to just like i think if you
study eastern spirituality
and i don't mean from an academic sense
i mean in the way that you study things
which is like very very practically
then i think you'll learn a lot
about yourself and like what you should
do with your life
okay oh i should get that done
just so i don't forget something i can
always look back to
eastern spirituality
sure i'll send you more concrete
recommendations after the talk
if you could that'd be very nice yep i
have a couple of things particularly in
mind
right thank you um what do you think
about this conversation
um it's a little bit intimidating i
think is a good way to put how i'm
feeling
where i get what you mean
uh i think i have a better understanding
of what you meant by i was a waste
i guess or it would be a potential waste
um
more so now after you went into that
side
what's intimidating about the
conversation hmm
[Music]
the i guess everything that goes into
um doing something
very large
yeah so this is exactly what you need to
learn man it doesn't have to be large
right so like you could become a pastry
chef and you could run a little bakery
in some small town in europe
and that can be actually completely
sufficient it could be perfect
right like like if if what you devote
yourself to is making
delicious pastries that enrich the lives
of people
and like that's what you put all of your
focus into i think it's fine i don't
think you have to
you know do something grand you don't
have to save the world
it's just about and this is what's so
hard to explain five up is it's not
about the outward action forget about
the outward action
it's about what's going on on the inside
it's about what your intention is and
what your mindset is
it's about like you know that internal
compass that drives you to act the
action stuff you've gotten taken care of
like that's not a big deal
and so the manifestation i think is is
actually somewhat irrelevant i mean it's
not irrelevant but
you'll figure out what that is the point
is like
what what is on the inside
right like what do you what do you
like when you wake up and you because
you're
it's kind of interesting because you're
halfway there so
so you know what's your intention when
you start to bake something
um i think you might be
focusing on the baking side a little bit
much as in that that's just a
uh i guess a goal or not a goal just a a
potential
pursuit where at some point i
think it'd be fun to do that and then
after that i would pursue something else
after i was finished with that whether
that be
um i mean i guess another goal is be
trilingual
um just i i don't
want to only focus on one thing five up
i i'm i'm not focusing on i'm just using
it as a placeholder because i don't know
what else to say
okay right so so my point is that it
doesn't matter
whether you're a teacher a doctor
a streamer or a baker that's my whole
point is that like
i think this i know this is kind of hard
to understand but your battles are going
to be
internal they're not going to be
external
does that make sense yeah so like i
don't care what it looks like that's why
i'm saying you don't have to like start
something grand like
forget about the outside world right
because like that [ __ ] is like
you know you started streaming three
months ago and you have
five to ten thousand concurrence were
you in the right place at the right time
sure did you cultivate it
absolutely
i think i like 70 percent understand you
and i i feel bad that i don't fully what
do you what do you
see like it's it's interesting to hear
how self-aware you are
right like you have a good understanding
of
you kind of say that this is
intimidating fair and yet you're able to
tolerate it
you're able to gauge what you understand
and what you don't understand
so tell me what you do understand and
tell me what you don't understand
i think i get at what you're trying to
i guess let me know or like try and open
another perspective on it
um the the thing that i'm
i i guess struggling is when when you
respond with like
the the you were just using the the
baking thing as an example
and you're more trying to like open up
like what do i want to do internally i
guess
um or the the internal side of it it's
like in my mind at least when i say like
i want to do what i want that's like
already somewhat the internal
stuff of i'm not just going to lay about
do like i'm going to do stuff i guess
um
and whether how easy or how hard or how
that makes me feel like i'm going to
do stuff that'll be challenging to me
i'm going to do stuff that's easy and
fun
um so that's why i guess i'm confused
when you said like
or why why i'm not gathering when you're
saying
that i'm not fully there it's a it's a
it's a good 0.5 up and
if anything the deficiency is on is on
my end because what i'm doing
is telling you i'm trying to
i'm being unfair with you because what
i'm doing is injecting conversations
that i've had like i said
with 30 year old you and 45 year old you
to attempt to guide
21 year old you and the problem is that
21 year old you hasn't had that
degree of experience so it's like kind
of confusing it's probably a mistake on
my part
but let me put it this way so let me ask
you this okay so
so let's say you were talking to a
streamer who had just blown up
but the streamer is concerned that their
stream has
a certain amount like a certain lifespan
to it
right they're like i stream this
particular game it's really popular
right now and i don't know what comes
next what would you say to them
okay that makes more sense now
if the streamer is worried pretty much
what you're doing is the streamer's
worried about the lifespan you give them
um the nudge of like
what they can do um
ways to either help sustain it or
what they can do after that or what
they've created i guess
um or
other things to do in the solution
behind it
okay and are you doing that stuff
oh yeah i mean yeah i'm
i'm doing a mixture of
i so is this relating back to myself as
like giving self advice or like what i'm
doing currently
so i'm just saying like so so here's
okay
this is tough five okay so let me let me
start with this so like
you say you're terrified of what's gonna
happen after among us
right i don't think you're actually that
worried about it
um
i i there is a degree of worry where
sure it's not like
i don't think i'm gonna go from
ten thousand to zero i don't think that
will be a thing because that doesn't
make sense
in terms of where things are but there
is the um
i guess the the self-conscious aspect of
i know a lot of people watch me because
i'm good at the game
and it's i tend not to like think about
numbers
um but when you compare like among us to
let's say i stream a different game
it's hard to i mean that is like
there's a there's a jump now i've taken
this step in trying to
i guess introduce people to more sides
of what i do
but it's still a very big intimidation
or an intimidation i keep saying that
word it
it's daunting i guess yeah so if you
went from ten thousand to zero five up
how would you feel about that
i'd feel pretty sad about it um not
relating to like
damn i really want to be a streamer and
in sex that i killed my stream it'd be
more like wow
i guess people didn't find me
entertaining and really only watch me
for this that make me feel sad
and where would you be a year from then
um if streaming died completely youtube
died completely
i would probably pursue
a degree in denmark from
some stuff that i've earned from
streaming and try and pursue
uh education from their kids i mean this
is a goal that i've
wanted to move to denmark for a very
long time
and so i would use what i've gotten from
streaming to
help me with uh getting there as a goal
and whether it be so like this is kind
of my point
right so man this is so hard i'm i'm
sorry five up i i may i may need to
take another crack at you later but so
like this is my point so like
if your streaming career ended in
dumpster fire
i think you would be fine in a year i
think you would continue moving along
the goals that you've set for yourself
yeah okay if your streaming career was
successful i think you'd do the same
thing
like here's what i think you think about
your streaming career and when i make
statements like this i
i'm i'm giving you an opportunity to
tell me that i'm wrong
okay so i don't want you to like by all
means say
you have no idea what you're talking
about dr k so like here's
like i think that you recognize that you
have an opportunity
and you're going to make the most of
this opportunity and something of your
identity and your ego is kind of getting
confused because i think you had a
pretty clear sense of who you were
before this whole thing happened
and that this streaming thing is like
kind of a weird stress or pressure
where you still have a pretty good sense
of your identity but it's starting to
get maybe a little bit muddy
and then like at the end of the day like
your compass is your compass and if you
have a good opportunity you're gonna
take advantage of it
and you're gonna make the most of it and
you're gonna try to make it
do what you can out of streaming because
it's like it'd be dumb if you didn't
but i don't hear that you're caught up
in the idea of being a streamer i don't
hear that it's actually important
to it's just a means to an end
yeah the way i've looked at streaming is
i've always decided like like i said in
the beginning
i wasn't i didn't have the intention of
being a streamer it just sort of
happened
and i told people in the beginning um
i'm going to stream if people want to
watch me and be a means of entertainment
um and then maybe form a nice community
about it and then
if people didn't watch me then i would
go on about it so
while i am saying that from where i am
now going from
a big number to zero is daunting it's
it's that wasn't the this hasn't been
something that i've like worked my whole
life towards i guess
like a lot of people it's their
aspiration and their like life's desire
to be a streamer
um where i just didn't go through that i
don't have the
attachment of trying to
like i guess make this work like other
people have
it just sort of happened and here i am
right so so okay i don't even know what
i'm trying to say at this point
let me just think about this for a
second
do you have questions five up that would
probably focus my mind a lot
um
give me a second let me think
i thought i'm on the spot it's hard to
think of a question um it's okay
um
i guess what do you what do you do
because you you have a lot of influence
especially for what you provide
and especially being a doctor or
therapist or
um this means like what do you do with
the amount of influence that you have
and how do you like fully control it
because
i think you you do a very good job
at helping people and educating the
public and making people have
a better mindset uh or way of thinking
and it's very hard for me to
even realize the influence
because it's also new i don't know how
to control it that's like i guess i got
into
a big drama in the middle of me
streaming i guess with xqc
for example um what happened
uh so i guess during
an among us lobby
um i had the intention of
going to a specific group but i saw one
group was forming
uh like a lot earlier so i was gonna
play in that group
uh and then swap to the other group when
that time frame happened
this group happened to be the the prior
group the early one that i was going to
swallow through later
was the one with felix and then
um how much do you know about among us
i played it once played it once okay for
like
an hour and a half gotcha let's just say
i am you
you've spoken to me for like an hour or
so now i think you
probably gathered that i'm like heavily
logical thinker
that side um i will
try and have a conversation and
try and like provide my side of it and
that might come off as arrogant because
i think
at least from the logical side and i
have a giant amount of experience
when it comes to deception based games
because i've played
do you know what mafia is for example
yeah okay i've played mafia
in a hyper competitive scenario or
hyper-competitive environment for like
five years
so like that was just
that trained me for among us i guess for
the the social side
um and then mechanics from i guess
league transfer over
or i guess games so it i people deemed
me as a very good player i guess
um in among us interesting karma there
huh
yeah um so
when i go at it versus felix it was like
just the clash of he
i guess intentions of how to play the
game where
in the old game um you used to be able
to confirm if a person is imposter or a
crewmate just by looking at the taskbar
at the top
and i felt that defeated the the purpose
of the game
in general because it's no longer a
social deduction game it's more just
i'm going to look at a person do this
and the game mechanics instantly
confirms who
all the imposters are and who all their
criminals are i as a person who is
intention is like string me the game for
entertainment
um my goal is like for all the streamers
to have fun in the audience to have fun
because there's
what like 200 000 people watching uh
across all the streamers
so when that happened and i
just i'm known as like one of the best
imposters in the game
in general uh that causes me to get
voted out consistently
it doesn't matter if i'm good or bad um
and that got heavily on my nerves and he
got he gets hyper competitive um
so eventually just left me to leaving
the lobby after a few scenarios where i
call him and posture explain why
and then he's i guess [ __ ] talking and
it was a consistent thing where that
entire
uh thing annoyed me and um i eventually
just left
he said a bunch of things uh
and continue to speak about it after i
even left i said my piece of what i
thought of the situation
that heavily blew up um on live stream
fails
got on to like random gaming web
articles was on snapchat
and just caused like a really really
shitty dynamic
what does that mean shitty dynamic where
if you do anything wrong text you see
his chat will brigade you
um and that is what like people only
knew me for for a month
and was like it feels awkward
uh it felt awkward for a while it's like
i can't play in the game with him
and because you're gonna get brigaded by
his chat
uh well it's not
like people were on my side and now you
have
uh his chat defending him but
everyone else [ __ ] on him and then
it's like if i play in a lobby with him
there's going to be no matter what me
versus him
um and i like i
among this is 10 people and i want to
play with my friends but he also plays
with my friends
um so it was just
that whole situation was really bad so
how does that make you feel
well it made me feel bad i didn't like
that at all what did you feel bad about
um there were two things one
i am a hyper competitive person also so
i understand that but i have never been
one to rage
um but i'm very understanding of like
who xqc is and why he's like that
and i didn't find it like
i i didn't want there to be a rift or a
weird dynamic but i knew
the chat would cause it so if it was
just like if me and him were it was just
like a one-on-one
or just playing with friends it wouldn't
matter um
we would just both move on and it'd be
fine but because there
is a bunch of other people talking about
it looking about it causing a bunch of
trouble he got tons of hate for it
um because everyone made him look out to
be like this the worst guy in the world
uh and i felt bad about that and i mean
train talked to me about like
how the bigger streamer pretty much no
matter what gets the fault
just because of the audience um
and that's not necessarily true for
everything but
the more people you have the more people
there are to [ __ ] on you and
so there was the combination of i don't
think i was in the wrong yet i also feel
bad about the situation that happened
and that's also why i wanted like how do
i
control an audience because i don't want
that to happen again
okay so um my answer is going to be
somewhat disappointing but
you don't right so like let's just talk
about what you're saying
so how do you control the behavior i i
mean i'm going to give you a more
satisfying answer in a second but the
short answer and it's really important
to understand this
is that you don't right like i can't
control
toxicity like i don't control what
someone else does
like i can't control what someone else
does now there are a lot of practical
things that will people will tell you
that you can
sort of cultivate a particular kind of
chat and we work very hard to do that
so you can have you know mods that have
low tolerance towards certain kinds of
behaviors and things like that for sure
they're practical things
but in in the essence of it i want you
five up to take a step back from like
controlling another human being
and now you may not agree with that
because i i think you probably are
really good at hurting
other people i i said heard h-e-r
i i heard i probably probably
right so i i think you're good at that
but like be really
really careful about what you actually
expect from
yourself and just because you tend to be
pretty good at like
hurting other people into doing what you
want to
doesn't mean that you can actually
control them
and the bizarre thing is i think that
it's the understanding that you can't
control someone
that in and of itself is one of the most
useful things in influencing them
because once you acknowledge that you
can't control another person
once you seed that power over
to your audience you
also
can kind of like influence them in the
purest way
which is to like give them an offer so
what i try to do is
is cultivate a particular like attitude
and i model particular behavior and
with a lot of help from mods we sort of
encourage a certain we cultivate right
so you can't
control someone but you can absol
absolutely cultivate behavior
it's the difference between control and
cultivation
yeah i i didn't want to say con
control i guess like that's not how i
felt about i don't want to control
people
it's i guess influence is the better
word yeah so
so so and i think you use the word
influence
actually in your question and and so i
just want to kind of
maybe i'm belaboring a useless point but
so then the next thing is that i
i think like you can just model write
the appropriate behavior
and and so i mean i think that's the
most that you can do but frankly this
sounds to me like a hazard of like being
a streamer on twitch
right because you've got a community and
he's got a community and y'all are gonna
get into it
it sounds to me like you're choosing
your words very comparably
uh carefully because you said the word
competitive
like 15 times and it sounded to me like
that was code for something else
um but i i mean it i i mean i haven't
figured out how to avoid twitch drama
if that if that's your end if that's
what your real question is
um yeah i mean they're
uh for for me uh i i am carefully
saying what i say um yeah i can tell
just i i don't i don't want to get into
a situation
like that pretty much ever again i don't
want to say something that
wouldn't or like give people a wrong
impression
or i'll try to correct that wrong
impression as soon as i think i might
have given it
um but but i i think five up so
maybe here i can give you some concrete
advice and then i'll try to i'll try to
like circle back to
what on earth i was trying to say for
the last hour um but
let me say this so i think when you
choose your words very very carefully
i think people can tell and i think if
anything
it highlights like something weird
right so so i think sometimes being
transparent and authentic
and kind of accepting of things is
actually
like way better from a drama reduction
standpoint
than being like choosing your words
super carefully
i feel like that's hard to do because it
is hard to do so
so like i think like for example if i if
i had to say
if i was in your situation here's how i
would tell the story
so felix and i were in an among us game
we're both [ __ ] competitive he
got super [ __ ] toxic i got super
[ __ ] toxic
i thought i was less toxic than he was
we got into it our chats started yelling
at each other now the internet hates him
and his chat hates me and i like felix
and i want to be able to play with him
but it's [ __ ] awkward every time
we're in the lobby now
and i just want to be able to play the
game and i think he just wants to be
able to play
the game and i wish everyone would
[ __ ] come calm the [ __ ] down
there's the there's the side of me also
that it's like
i have my opinions um
i don't think what i said was wrong and
i don't think what i said was toxic
and i will die on that hill
um so it's like it's a god there's the
attachment
so so it's a matter of like
i'm not going to
just not give out my opinion
um and if i say something i mean
everything i say generally
i'm not a toxic person and i've never
been
so that's why that situation bothered me
heavily
yeah so so i think it's taken us about
an hour and a half to find which hail
you're willing to die on because that's
an attachment
i haven't detected an attachment in you
5 up until this moment
everything that you've said
so now now the question is like why is
it so important
for you to die on that hill
um
[Music]
i i guess just because i believe what
i'm saying and
if
if something's bothering me i will try
and say it
in a more respectful way i don't want to
like burn bridges with anyone
i don't want to um i don't want to teach
people from
like if i'm in front of people i want to
like give them it's okay that you don't
have to accept an apology or you don't
have to say you're sorry
i wanted to say um
i i want to stand for what i believe in
and if what i think is right i'm going
to
say that i'm not going to say no i'm
wrong like that's not
how i want to think about things yeah so
so i i
oddly enough i i think that's okay so i
think it's okay to die on a hill
but let me just so i still think you can
be transparent about that
um there's a degree of transparency that
you can go to
where it
you can have an opinion about something
on twitch or another person
and it's not good to say that sometimes
like sure some people say whatever the
[ __ ] they want and
go for it i mean that's fine uh but i
also don't think that's like a good
environment at the same time for
like having a relationship with people
and if you're no matter what going to be
in contact with
uh x person um
whether that's like in your control or
not just because of the nature
so uh community and such let me be let
me be let me circle back to your
original question five up
so you said you know what like how do
you influence
people like in twitch chat and my answer
was
i would be a little bit more transparent
than your being
so that's my answer right so like like i
agree with you i mean i have all kinds
of opinions that i don't share
so for everything that i say there are
like nine things that i don't say
so i'm not advocating for like radical
honesty i think that's
idiotic so i i think but
something tells me that you know
something about the way that you speak
i think twitch chat so twitch chat is
like very very like intuitive
like they're very smart and they're also
like deeply empathic
and i think they sniff out bs
and i think one thing that you do
project when you choose your words very
very carefully is it sets people's bs
meter off
and and so if you want to like calm chat
down it's been my experience that you
have to be like honest with them and you
have to sort of treat them with respect
like don't try to pull a fast one over
on them because it's not gonna work
and just you know just and then like if
there's something that you stand behind
i think it's okay to say it
um and but at the same time if you feel
like it's going to create more drama
then it's a tricky balance like don't
get me wrong
i i i think that you know it's hard like
when you're
when you when you play at a
tension-inducing game like among us
with streamers and not everyone is going
to be quite as like
detached as you are it's part of what
makes them successful right is being
emotionally invested in the games that
they play like i think this is gonna
happen
yeah um
that's not my my
i could say this also um with what i
said with
regarding xqc in that moment i would say
the same thing again
i don't have regrets on that um if that
arose again uh with a different person i
would
say my opinion on it um what actually
happened i i don't even
know i'm saying that oh what happened
was
i
in the for when that whole situation
happened
he just every time i played with him
he would vote me out as in he they call
button nobody's dead and still vote me
out
that was how the game was played and
i sat through that um for two hours on a
specific day on other days i enjoyed
hopefully playing with him but on that
day it was just
uh like already being tilted
just going into it where i have
everything
uh going for me in a game and then
i just get voted out because it was me
and it was always him doing it and that
got on my nerves
and then whenever i call him out it's
like he called me like
it just discredited everything i said
and eventually it left me to
leave the lobby i left politely i
there's there's a video on it i mean i i
try to make things
as peaceful as an exit as i could and
it's just because i left on me catching
him
and just the whole situation going down
horribly and then me saying it after and
then that exploding
and then
i don't want to say some stuff i'd be
fine messaging you some stuff but i
don't want to say some stuff
that's fine and i just i was just like
you're talking around something and i
don't know
yes there is something i'm talking
around and i can't say it that's fine
don't worry about it i mean i i think at
the end of the day like
so your original question so it sounds
like this was just a mess
yeah it was it was a disaster definitely
so um but
that's not my main worry that was that
was a a battle between him and that's
over with we've
spoken it's fine um my thing with twitch
has
there is such a juxtaposition between
i don't try and hide stuff um i'm i'm
being selective what i say right now
because it's related to this specific
topic
if i'm talking about like it seems like
chat as a whole it doesn't matter how
like i'm playing with friends when i
play right now
it's i genuinely enjoy love everyone
that i play with right now
um but if they do something stupid it's
everyone just in insane
um toxicity towards that streamer and
it's the juxtaposition of like
why why is that happening when there's
like no hostility
in the game in general someone made a
mistake it's a game about deception and
i can't i i just don't know why that's
happening and it's
so many people and i it's
virtually impossible to control okay so
i mean that i have sort of a slightly
different answer for
so you know i went off on i feel like
this conversation has been a lot of
tangents that i'm going off on that may
not be very relevant to what we're
actually talking about or where you are
so i apologize for that but i'll share
with you something that we try to tell
our coaches
um which is that be careful about
judging your own influence and what i
mean by that is that we frequently have
the situation where our coaches feel
like they
get like they're like i'm not doing
enough for my client
like my client is still struggling like
they're depressed every day or like
they're
having trouble finding a girlfriend or
whatever and our coaches meet with
people on a weekly basis weekly basis
and they kind of meet with them week
after week after week and it sort of
feels like
since the person doesn't have a
girlfriend our coaches can feel very
frust not frustrated but really um
like they're letting down their client
so
one of the things that we try to tell
them is that you know be careful because
change happens slowly
and it's very very hard to judge your
impact on something
in a short term so what i would say to
you actually
five up is that like you know if people
respond to someone making a mistake with
toxicity
you can model the right kind of behavior
and if you
chip away at that long enough you'll
start to see a change
the other thing i mean you can even use
some particular techniques
if you really want to get into it but
you can help people understand their
toxicity
and it can be as simple as like hey
everyone is jumping down
xqc's throat right now or my throat it's
hard for yourself
but if someone you know if someone makes
a mistake and everyone jumps on them you
can ask people hey i'm noticing that a
lot of people are jumping down this
person's throat
you know what's going on there you can
ask an open-ended question or you can
even pull a dr k
and ask like how do you guys feel about
this person making a mistake
and then as you bring attention and
awareness to the behavior
it tends to get better like once people
realize what they're doing that they're
actually channeling their frustration
out on someone else and if you can bring
attention to it it'll kind of slow down
okay i mean i feel like i've done
at least that to a degree and i try to
as much as possible
it just doesn't feel like the the result
is much i guess right so
that's where you have to think a little
bit about what is your
when you say the result doesn't it
doesn't feel like the result as much
so that you have to pay attention to
like how calibrated that instrument is
and what are your expectations
right so what's your ability to detect
change
in in an among us game are you expecting
that
patterns that have been reinforced
through years of gaming and blaming
other people because
that's what games tend to make us do are
gonna be wiped away by one comment
or a dozen comments or comments over the
course of three months
no obviously not well i i
i don't know right so what's your
expectation on like
what would change look like like what
are you looking for
um i just don't
want like my ideal world
i guess is if someone makes a mistake in
the game
um whether i mean so hofu is the main
person i play with
um became really really good friends
with her um
i guess they're among us and there is so
much blatant
i guess sexism um
like if she does something that like she
catches me in a lie
or um or someone makes a dumb play in
that lobby
then the chat will just
go like rampant like pure rampage on
like
i hate this person they caught like it's
people are so invested into what happens
towards me in a game where i understand
what the game's about but even when i
try to
like i defend people 24 7 i guess
and that's the biggest like i don't it's
hard to control that
okay is there some way to observe
an among us game i mean watching a
stream i guess
or what do you mean by like are you guys
on a discord call or like how does that
work
we are on discord yes
so like everyone who's in the game is on
discord yes so we play the round we're
all muted
and then when a body is found we all
mute and talk in the meeting
and there's no looking at chat during
the game because people will say
spoilers so
i can't control my chat while i'm alive
in the game unless i'm an imposter
so if i'm a crewmate like it's all mod's
responsibility
um can i can i actually
watch this like can i sit in a discord
call with you guys one day
sure i don't want to actually play the
game is there is there like an observer
position in the game
you would have to watch a stream there's
no spectator there's no spectator okay
i'm just a little bit curious now i find
myself being curious about what y'all's
actual interactions look like it's
anyway so that that's one thought
um because i i feel like if you wanted
more advice about how to handle that
it's just such a unique environment that
i don't know
i feel like me just watching it once i'd
actually be able to answer your question
way better okay
um because i played like i said i played
among us once
and and like it was like with our
community and like
our communities like super healthy
like everyone cares about each other and
[ __ ] so i feel like i didn't even i
haven't been
i haven't seen this world that you're
talking about i've been in the kiddie
pool
and you guys are like swimming in the
english channel and it's just not
it's not the same at all
um yeah just watch any um
among the stream where someone
gets caught i guess so just the
reactions
five up i wanna if it's okay with you i
wanna try to circle back and like
share something with you in a sensical
way before we wrap up is that cool
sure so a lot of people have been asking
um you know
i kind of early on i sort of said that i
think like you're you're spiritually
gifted
and people are kind of confused by what
that means i'm sure you're confused by
what that means so that that's kind of
like
i just want to address that for a second
and do something that i i do
kind of rarely which is like advise you
so
five up so it seems to me like you know
like i kind of said earlier you were
born with good rng
so you have a certain kind of like mind
so it sounds like you're intelligent um
it sounds like you
grew up you know i'm not hearing any any
inkling of like abuse or anything like
that although maybe it's just really
really well hidden
um but i'm not hearing that you struggle
with any negative emotions
or not when i say it's not that you
don't have negative emotions it seems
like you're pretty good at like kind of
processing with
them processing them dealing with them
things like that
and when i kind of ask you like okay
what are you going to do in your life
and it sounds like you've got a strong
internal compass
that sort of is like yeah college is not
actually something that i need to do so
i'm not going to do it
i'm not hearing i mean this could be
there but you know
i'm not hearing um that you
in high school were thought that you
should go to a place like harvard or
yale or whatever
stanford and that you were afraid that
you wouldn't get in so you like decided
not to apply at all i'm not
getting that whiff um did you have those
kinds of thoughts or feelings
um there's a there's a big element of
comparing myself to my brother
where uh
i i we didn't dive too far into this i
guess for the school
my brother was a complete straight a
like beyond honor student
um and then because of the the
situations that i learned from like the
first
eight years of school i guess where it
didn't matter like
it felt like uh my perception of school
was they all taught
at least the school that i went to um i
live in arizona
the way the school systems work here is
they pay the teachers based off of
the grades people get not just for the
students so
a lot of the teachers would
inflate people's grades just so they get
better pay also
so it i realized that i was all teaching
to the test
and not necessarily teaching people and
i heavily disagreed with that and it
made me lose a heavy interest in school
so it was
here's my brother getting perfect grades
working hard because
he he knew what he wanted to do that
required
stuff like really good grades to get in
and
then i just had a complete loss of
interest
in all that because of how the system
worked
so it wasn't necessarily that i got good
grades
um but it was like here i am not
necessarily doing the best in school
but that's off my own volition but
here's my brother doing the best and
it's like
well i mean i there is the pressure from
family to do very well
so not necessarily like harvard but
there is good school
um they're like you know probably should
go to that potentially
okay so maybe maybe i i i've misjudged
this
i don't think i'm entirely wrong but
that sounds way more
of sometimes what happens so maybe
that's worth
you know exploring a little bit further
unfortunately i i have to get going in a
few minutes but
you know it may be far more pedestrian
than than i thought
um in terms of just you know standard
comparison and stuff and i apologize for
not
exploring that with you i think that was
also my fault for not like going
to that degree because that's definitely
important
yeah so but let's kind of just circle
back to this idea of like spiritually
gifted because i still think that that's
true
so so then then i think the next thing
to kind of think about is that like you
seem to have
you know streaming success kind of
dumped in your lap
like you sort of fell into it um
and you're kind of like focusing on like
fun for now
and things like that and and you're kind
of like okay what am i going to do that
will give me more freedom what am i
going to do that i
enjoy and it seems to me like you kind
of just put those
together and like you know you move in
the direction that is good for your like
long-term security and that is like
enjoyable
i'm not hearing you as the kind of
person who will like
sacrifice eight years of your life to
become a doctor if you don't enjoy doing
that
right and and so the other interesting
thing is that i i do think you
you genuinely have a fair amount of
detachment and what i mean by that is
that if your streaming career tanked in
a year i think you would be okay with
that
you'd sort of be sad because you
recognized that you maybe had an
opportunity that you missed
or you squandered something or something
along those lines
maybe you screwed up in some way and so
you'd be kind of sad about that
but you'd also be like relatively
calculating and sort of think about okay
how could i do it better next time
but overall i'm getting the sense that
you're going to be okay
and here's here's what i'm i would tell
you five up the first thing is that if
at some point you feel
directionless you know i do think that
there is a system of
exploration of the self and the meaning
of life and things like that
which i think may be interesting to you
and hopefully helpful
which is sort of like this eastern
perspective on like life and and
karma and things like that i'm not
trying to you know say like you don't
have to
it's not about religion it's just about
um
when i think about religion i tend to
think about like belief systems
and sort of like you know faith and
things like that
it's really more um
an exploration of like how stuff works
it's about understanding what are the
different way like why are we here like
how does this stuff work
what should i do with my life what is
the nature of happiness
where does happiness come from where
does desire come from
you strike me as someone who would
really really enjoy
and probably benefit from some amount of
formal instruction and this kind of
stuff
because i think you figure a lot of this
stuff out on your own and all i'm
telling you is that
you know you may like it's kind of like
you're working through the laws of
physics on your own and it's like hey by
the way there's a physics textbook you
can read
which you should still question um
you know and by all means you should
question it's a big part of it
but i think that you know you may find a
lot of value in that because i i think
that a lot of the
common wisdom may not apply to you
because i think you're different
five up um and for people that i've i've
met who are sort of like you they tend
to find
a lot of solace and direction in
some of these texts the next thing that
i would say to you is that i think that
you're gonna sort of gradually feel
empty if you continue this path for a
long time
i don't think you should deviate from it
now but what i mean is that
right now you're sort of leaning towards
the next strategically best thing
that fills you with the most enjoyment
from day to day
the thing that challenges you the most
the thing that gives you a sense of
mastery
and you're gonna do that right like you
said you're gonna do baking for a little
while and then
like don't get too caught up in baking
because i'm gonna move on to something
agree you're gonna learn three languages
you're gonna learn how to bake you're
gonna stream some
and then you'll get to be 25 and then
you'll get to be 30 and you'll get to be
35 and you'll have accumulated a lot of
skills
and then that process and this is the
real point that i've been trying to make
that process of chasing after one thing
at a time until you sort of master it
and move on
is gonna start to feel empty does that
make sense
yeah it makes a lot of sense and that's
why i'm telling you like i've talked to
you when you're 30 and i've talked to
you when you're 45 and that's what i've
seen from people like you
and then ultimately what brings these
people happiness
is like us a stark and difficult
exploration that's entirely internal
and if you have questions about that or
if at some point you feel directionless
or you feel like you have difficulty you
know and you don't know what to do with
your life like
you know shoot me a dm because i i may
be able to give you some concrete
recommendations at that time
all right i'll remember that is that
no yeah that makes sense okay that's
basically what i was trying because i i
think like you can't live
normal people's lives if you're not a
normal person
and i i think you've already figured
that out um
and there may be some stuff around
comparison and ego and
and not being able to live up to
expectations and stuff
but at the end of the day you know i
think you can keep on doing what you're
doing but
you'll move from one thing to the next
to the next to the next
and you may feel accomplished and you
may feel like you're progressing but
it'll start to feel empty
is my guess
yeah i can
i mean that is a worry um that i've had
so i thought about that a little bit um
so i i definitely know what you're
saying
but but i i would also say that
there's no it's worth it for you to go
down that road
so you feel that worry very genuinely
i don't know i'm not saying you should
avoid that is what i'm saying
no i mean i i'm definitely still going
to
pursue a lot of my goals yeah yeah i
think you should
absolutely any last questions for me
five up
um not so much question but more of like
a
thank you for talking to me i guess not
having the time
yeah of course man i i you know i feel
like i kind of owe you an apology
because i'm not sure how helpful this
was and i
i really do try to help people but i
don't know maybe it's not having the cam
i'm not quite sure no i mean i think it
was
if anything like no matter how helpful
it was i mean talking to a person is
also nice about the
things and advice about it from a
different perspective
it's always really good
yeah i feel like i have i have a karmic
debt that needs to be paid
in this conversation i feel like what
i'm supposed to give you i haven't given
you yet
hmm
um i think you i think you have
to a very big degree but also
i don't think i've given you the means
to like i don't think i know what i need
to give to
help you also i guess possible
i i don't need um just to clarify i
don't need you to
it's just a feeling i'm sharing with you
okay it's not a particular response i'm
looking for
but you know
yeah i was just letting you know maybe
we can talk more about your brother
sure um so
listen thank you very much and are you
interested in learning meditation
five up um sure
i mean i've yeah
what am i going to teach you have you
have you watched our
have you learned alternate nostril
breathing
i don't think so actually we're gonna do
a different one for you
um okay give me a second
okay so i'm gonna do something a little
bit different for you okay i want you to
close your eyes okay and listen to the
sound of your breath
can you hear it
and so what i want you to do is
phonetically spell out the sound of the
breath
that's hard
so can you give me anything give me a
bad answer before a good one
can we say it out loud sure whatever
you've got whatever you
whatever you can think of
i think it's like inhaling is a lot of
like
s's and exhaling is a lot of h's
okay good so practice it for
a couple of weeks and then let me know
and just see if you can figure it out
okay
that's difficult all right yeah so it
requires it requires
practice and it requires you focusing
your attention
on something relatively internal
but i i think for definitely for you
five up
you want well i mean you can learn
formal meditation at some point but
i think an investigative technique is
definitely the way for you to start
okay
any last thoughts or questions before
you wrap up
good answer by the way you're on the
right track okay
um i don't i don't think i have
a question that comes to mind right now
uh anything from your side i guess nope
that's all right yeah take care
all right well thank you for having me
thanks for coming on five up and i
i really do want to watch one of y'all's
uh among us streams now
yeah we usually play at um 8 p.m pst or
it's not 8 pm 8 am pst
uh go all the way until like generally 2
p.m or not 2 p.m
1 okay p.m
and sometimes we do night streams okay
cool
sounds good all right take care man i'll
get some
thank you too bye bye
all right chad ours sorry about that i
i don't know what was going on i don't
know if it was me or him or not the face
or what
but i felt like i was kind of off my
game today